you now know about linear regression
with multiple variables in this video I
want to tell you a bit about the choice
of features that you have and how you
can get different learning algorithms
sometimes very powerful ones by choosing
appropriate features and in particular
I'll also want to tell you about
polynomial regression which allows you
to use the machinery of linear
regression to fit very complicated even
very nonlinear functions let's take the
example of predicting the price of a
house suppose you have two features the
frontage of the house and the depth of
the whole so here's a picture of the
house we're trying to sell the frontage
is defined as this distance it's
basically the width or the length of how
wide your lot is of this plot of land at
your own and the depth of the house is
how far how deep your property is so
there's a frontage that's the depth so
you have two features called frontage
and def you might build a linear
regression model like this where
frontage is your first feature x1 and
depth is your second feature x2 but when
you're applying linear regression you
don't necessarily have to use just the
features x1 and x2 then you're given
what you can do is actually create new
features by yourself so if I want to
predict the price of a house what I
might do instead is decide that what
really determines the size of house is
the area really the land area that I own
so I might create a new feature just
causes feature X which is frontage times
depth this is a multiplication symbol
right so frontage times death because
this is the land area that I own and I
might then select my hypothesis as that
using just one feature which is my land
area right because the area of a
rectangle is you know the product of the
length of a size so depending on what
insight you might have into a particular
problem rather than just taking the
features frontage and depth that we
happen to have started off with
sometimes by defining new features you
might actually get a better model
closely related to the idea of choosing
your features is this idea called
polynomial regression let's say you have
a housing price data set that looks like
this then there are a few different
models you might fit to this one thing
you could do is fit a quadratic model
like this it doesn't look like a
straight line fits this data very well
so maybe you want to fit a quadratic
model like this where you think the size
where you think the price is a quadratic
function and maybe that would give you
you know a fit to the data that looks
like that but then you might decide that
your quadratic model doesn't make sense
because of a quadratic function
eventually this function comes back down
and well we don't think housing prices
should go down when the size goes up too
high so then maybe we might choose a
different polynomial model and choose to
use instead a cubic function and where
we have now a third order term and we
fit that maybe we will get this sort of
model then maybe the green line is a
somewhat better fit to the data because
it doesn't eventually come back down so
how do we actually fit a model like this
to our data using the machinery of
multivariate linear regression we can do
this with a pretty simple modification
to our algorithm the form of the
hypothesis we know how the fit looks
like this where we say that H of X is
theta 0 plus theta 1 X 1 plus a 2 X 2
plus a 3 X 3 and if we want to fit this
cubic model that I have a box in green
what we're saying is that the predictor
price of a house is theta 0 plus theta 1
times the size of the house plus theta 2
times the square size of the house so
this term singular that term and then
plus theta 3 times the cube of the size
of the house right since that third term
in order to map these two definitions to
each other well the natural way to do
that is to set the first feature x1 to
be the size of the house and set the
second feature x2 to be the square of
the size of house and set the third
feature x three to be the cube of the
size of the halls
and just by choosing my three features
this way and deploying the machinery of
linear regression I can fit this model
and end up with a cubic fit to my data I
just want to point out one more thing
which is that if you choose your
features like this then feature scaling
becomes increasingly important so if the
size of a house ranges from one to a
thousand so you know from 1 to 1,000
square feet say then the size squared of
the house will range from 1 to 1 million
the square of a thousand and your third
feature X cubed excuse me your xxx
feature X 3 which is the size cubed of
the house will range from 1 to 10 to the
9 and so these 3 features take on very
different ranges of values and it's
important to apply feature scaling if
you're using gradient descent to get
them into comparable ranges of values
finally here's one last example of how
you really have broad choices in the
features you use earlier we talked about
hard quadratic model like this might not
be ideal because you know maybe a
quadratic model fits the data ok but the
quadratic function goes back down and we
really don't want right housing prices
that go down to predict that as the size
of housing freezes but rather than going
to a cubic model there you have maybe
other choices of features and there are
many possible choices but just to give
you an another example of a reasonable
choice another reasonable choice might
be to say that the price of a house is
theta 0 plus theta 1 times the size and
then plus theta 2 times the square root
of the size right so the square root
function is this sort of function and
maybe there will be some value of theta
1 theta 2 theta 3 that will let you take
this model and to the curve that looks
like that and you know goes up but
doesn't but sort of flattens out a bit
and doesn't ever come back down and so
by having insight into in this case the
shape of the square root function and
into the shape of the data by choosing
different feature
so you can sometimes get better models
in this video we talked about polynomial
regression that is how to fit a
polynomial like a quadratic function or
a cubic function to your data with all
throw this idea that you have a choice
in what features to use such as that
instead of using the frontage and the
depth of a house maybe you can multiply
them together to get a feature that
captures the land area of a house in
case this seems a little bit bewildering
then you know while with all these
different feature choices so how do I
decide what features to use later in
this class we'll talk about some
algorithms for automatically choosing
what features to use so you can have an
algorithm look at the data and
automatically choose for you whether you
want to fit a quadratic function or a
cubic function or something else but
until we get to those algorithms for now
I just want you to be aware that you you
have a choice in what features to use
and by designing different features you
can fit more complex functions your data
than just fitting a straight line to the
data and in particular you can say
polynomial functions as well and
sometimes by appropriate insights into
the features you can get a much better
model for your data